[Music]
coming up next we welcome to our studios
Robert Perry Washington correspondent
for Newsweek magazine last week he was
in Miami covering the arraignment of
general Manuel Noriega and he joins us
now to talk about his reporting on that
story
[Music]
Bob Perry Washington correspondent for
Newsweek you just got back from Miami
and this week's issue which has a cover
of general Noriega on it you write about
the bush Noriega relationship what is
that well it's something that we don't
really have all the answers on at this
point but clearly we know that that
there was a relationship particularly
between general Noriega and the Central
Intelligence Agency and vice president
or President Bush before he moved on to
be vice president and then president did
did direct the CIA in 1976 at that time
and then later as Vice President George
Bush did have contact with general
Noriega Fred Kemp has a piece part of
his book in this issue of Newsweek
saying that general area you got
$110,000 a year
how long did go on you know well that
was there were different levels of
retainer for general Noriega he was at
first paid much less and there's still
some dispute over exactly what his
salary was some of that may have been
money he was given to pass around to his
it was associates in the in the pen
amount of Defense Forces but he did
receive substantial sums from the
Central Intelligence Agency
what you doing Miami well I covered the
the case a bit talk to some of the
attorneys and mostly did a lot of
writing what you find down there well in
talking to the attorneys it became clear
that they will make an effort to to show
that general Noriega has secrets that he
can spill and that they will try to make
it a difficult case a lot of reporters
oh yeah was a mob scene how do you get
any individual and new information when
you're down there and a mess like that
what I always dislike the mob scenes as
the kind of reporting I do is is better
to done one on one or or on the phone
even when you're in that kind of a
situation where they're you know dozens
of reporters maybe hundreds all you can
basically do is get to the events and
listen to people talk and often that is
not the best way to get news one of your
competitors US News chose to put the
photo that you all put on the cover
inside what do you think of the
government releasing this
well I think it's pretty routine to
release photographs of suspects when
they're in incarcerated
it is obviously demeaning to general
Noriega and that probably is one of the
points that was to be made by the
government some suggestions were made by
people who are not happy about that it
may cause difficulty for getting a fair
trial well this will have the the this
trial will be very hard to to conduct in
the sense of getting an impartial jury
this is not like the North case in the
iran-contra affair where you had a great
deal of pre-trial publicity but it
wasn't all negative
many people like Colonel North very few
people like general Noriega
you also have the unprecedented
situation of American troops have been
gone into battle some of whom died to
bring this man back to the United States
to face these charges it's a very hard
choice I think for a jury to to decide
to find him innocent with that kind of a
background where do you go with this
story from here you personally I think
it's still very important to try to nail
down precisely what general Noriega does
know about US intelligence and his
relationship to President Bush that is
still in many ways not well known we
have many cases where where there were
meetings or documents possibly exchanged
where the the secrets have remained
fairly tightly held and if you saw
general Scowcroft on one of the talk
shows yesterday he's there's still a lot
that even the government apparently does
not know or at least does not want to
share at this point with the public what
happens if general Noriega is tried and
found not guilty well I think if he
would be like most people he would he'd
have to be released from from American
custody whether or not he would then be
returned to Panama is a bridge we'd have
a cross at that time whether the
Panamanians would want him whether
there'd be an effort to extradite him
back to Panama it's hard to say clearly
if you were general Noriega you probably
would want to go elsewhere Grand Rapids
for Bob Perry of Newsweek go ahead
please hi I think you're doing a
wonderful job I'd like to start by
saying that I have a couple questions
number one I do want to put a plug in
for Bush because I feel a lot more
confident with him running this country
with analogy does have from the Supreme
experience what I am really waiting and
anxious to hear is what Noriega is going
to say about his contacts here in the
United States and I would like to see
the press try and get some information
from you prior to the trial because I'm
real anxious to see how the Bush
administration is going to handle that
feedback and I'm also real concerned
about them I understand the need for the
control the cocaine if we bring it to
the United States what kind of effect
that's going to have so I'm curious
about those three things well on the
first point there there were two key
meetings that that George Bush had with
Manuel Noriega one was in 1976 when
George Bush was director of the Central
Intelligence Agency that meeting is
still pretty much a mystery there are
some pieces out of about it we know we
know that the CIA at the time was very
disturbed with with Noriega because he
had been taking us intercepts for his
own purposes either to sell them or to
provide intelligence to to his to his
government's leadership there was also
there also indications that at that
meeting George Bush enlisted Manuel
Noriega in spying on the Cubans on our
behalf
since the Cubans were using Panama as a
way to get around the US trade embargo
the United States wanted the Panamanians
to provide his information about what
the Cubans were up to so but there's
still some mystery as to exactly what
occurred at that meeting there was a
second meeting which occurred in
December of 1983 where the then vice
president met with Manuel Noriega and
other and two other officials from the
Panamanian government at that meeting as
best we can understand there was a
discussion of the of the
money-laundering issues that were of
interest in the United States and as
well some discussion about Nicaragua
there the the aides to Noriega claimed
there was at that meeting that that
Noriega was persuaded and listed to help
out with the contra operations in
Nicaragua but but President but but
President Bush is still not responded or
explained exactly what was what would
occur at those two meetings and the US
side has been very resistant to go into
those kind of do
Carson City Nevada capital of Nevada go
ahead please
yes Bryan what I my question is was it
worth twenty nine lives or twenty some
American boys lives about three hundred
and some wounded that the Veterans
Administration property will never take
care of and yet you could justify the
invasion of Panama when you've got a got
a couple a hitman out of Vegas for about
twenty five thousand and they'd it
disposed of him in a hurry and probably
even cheaper than twenty five now I
prepare well there are people in the US
military particularly the Special
Operations people who do feel somewhat
like that they feel that it should have
been a much more targeted operation one
that aimed at templates simply getting
Noriega and possibly some of his top
command and either bringing them back or
killing them they're obviously the the
president chose to go with a different
option which was to use essentially
mainline conventional US forces
supported and assisted by the Special
Operations people but with with largely
an invasion with massive massive
firepower to overwhelm the Panamanians
and to secure Noriega that way it's hard
to say which would have been better the
clearly there may have been fewer deaths
but there may have been more - if you
went the other way once the decision was
made to go for Noriega I think the the
the fact that you would have American
military casualties was almost certain
independence Kansas go ahead please yes
I was wondering why yesterday on CNN
they were talking about an attorney
general that went down to Panama to
investigate human rights violations and
he's come back and saying that at least
4,000 soldiers died down there maybe up
to 7,000 I'd like to I know why nobody's
reported things like this well I'm not
sure that's the case of soldiers I think
what is being discussed there are
civilian civilian casualties there were
a large number of civilian casualties
that were inflicted during the invasion
what what happened was that since
Noriega forces were
in headquarters close to these civilian
neighborhoods when the United States
went in with fairly heavy firepower
there were attendant civilian casualties
now the exact numbers been a point of
dispute the the president and his
advisors have said there even to this
state there are no good figures others
have gone down and suggested that the
number of civilian dead were ran into
the hundreds and possibly much higher
but I think the figures the best we can
fit determine at this point would be in
the 150 200 range of civilian deaths
magazine says so far 250 bodies have
been recovered of these 151 were buried
in two common graves one of which
contained 124 bodies and the other 27
bodies the graves were dug for public
health reasons because there were too
many bodies for the panamanian morgues
to handle what did this is in this
periscope this week in Newsweek what did
you personally think when you saw Ramsey
Clark making the statement that there
were thousands killed do you believe him
well it's not a case of believing or
just believing I was not down there I
did not see what what had happened he
clearly there were whole neighborhoods
that were devastated by the invasion
yeah in that sort of situation you are
going to get widely varying counts on
civilian deaths or wounded and to know
exactly what he did say Franklin
Louisiana the media organization would
undergo any impact well I think it's
it's a it's a good point to say that
there are American financial
institutions they don't have entirely
clean hands on the issue of money
laundering
it is a difficult area to get into and
not just because of the people are very
powerful and wealthy and could cause
your trouble that I'm not saying that's
not a factor at all
but it is also the case that money
laundry is a very hard story to get into
because it's complex because it is hard
to determine I think with any certainty
whether people who deal with drug money
often know what they're dealing with
there are huge sums of money that are
being transferred around the world and
for each bankers know what we're what
the origin of each batch of money is is
very difficult to expect that is that's
no excuse in some ways but it does it
does I think show how hard it is to get
into that kind of a story and do so with
the kind of confidence that you'd like
to have next call New York City go ahead
please good morning Brian and guests
thank goodness for c-span we definitely
need these kinds of form and/or forms in
order to get the American people to
participate in the the governance of
this country now I have two points to
make about the Noriega situation one is
it seems to me that the press has been
effectively muzzled in their coverage of
the taking of Noriega
from Panama the information that you and
the people in this country are getting
is in bits and pieces that doesn't seem
to be an overriding understanding as to
what actually has happened in Panama and
the second point I have is it seems to
me that we have taken a leader of a
sovereign nation from his territory he
is a Panamanian citizen what kind of
jurisdiction can the American courts
have over this man and I'm quite sure
his lawyers will make that their first
priority his lawyers have made that
point in fact they've already filed
motions or they filed motions more than
a year ago on exactly that point there
their argument was that that there was a
principle and international law of of
head of state immunity that that one
government cannot go into the country of
ruled by another government whether we
like them or not and seize their leaders
and bring them back to stand trial
obviously if that were done in a
widespread fashion you'd have
international anarchy the the
the Justice Department however has taken
a position that in cases involving drug
trafficking or terrorism in when the the
country that is the host country let's
say for the suspect is not cooperative
in returning that suspect for trial the
United States is now claiming the the
right to go into that country and seize
that individual obviously it's not
something that would be the first choice
but it's something that the United
States government is asserting as a
right that's that is a the US government
is probably undone rather shaky grounds
in terms of international law but it is
what the US government feels is
necessary to fight what I think most
Americans agree are serious problems of
drug trafficking terrorism Garden Grove
California go ahead please I guess to
comment on two things please we've heard
nothing but Panama City Panama City
there's another city a large population
center cologne we heard nothing from
Colona I wonder why the second thing is
the coup that occurred two or three
months ago we did not and I'm wondering
[Music]
consequently we didn't trust him or go
along with them I think well I think it
probably was as you suggest that these
were not our guys the president said at
the time that he felt that we did not
have a good handle on what and who these
people were what they were up to that it
was not part of an American plan and he
would have preferred some kind of
American solution at least in terms of
working with panamanians who had been
enlisted for that kind of activity or at
least who who the United States had
confidence in the u.s. clearly did not
have confident
in in that those KU makers at least not
in the timeframe that was required was
required for a response it will probably
be a difficult historical question
whether or not the United States should
have taken that opportunity to have even
have done so in a very hasty manner to
throw its support behind the KU makers
it might have made the the necessity for
an invasion a couple months later moot
and maybe we could have saved some some
lives as a result but the decision at
the time was that the United States did
not know what I was getting into and
didn't feel that that was a wise
approach any idea why we haven't heard
more about Cologne I think the press
coverage has still been fairly limited
as we've seen we've seen complaints from
some of the American reporters who are
on the on the on the Pentagon pool now
the Pentagon pool was was set up after
the Grenada invasion because Americans
journalists were not allowed into
Grenada to witness the actual fighting
the the pool was set up so in the event
of another US military activity like
this one American reporters could be on
the ground see what was happening report
back to the American people to explain
what actually occurred not just what the
Pentagon wanted us to know about that
did not work well the the American
reporters were taken down essentially
shown around by that by my Pentagon
public relations specialists showing
basically what the Pentagon wanted them
to see as part of this they did not get
a chance to go out in the countryside
very much or really do much independent
reporting at all reporters have gone in
since then and why they've not reported
about Cologne I really can't say the
obviously the focus hasn't panama city
and they're only so many journalists and
many of them are kind of are stuck with
a main story which would be what's
happening there
Perry is originally from Hartford
Connecticut is a graduate in English
from Colby College spent 12 years with
The Associated Press and has been at
Newsweek since 1987 got his start at
Middlesex Daily News in Framingham
Massachusetts Columbus Georgia go ahead
please yeah I got a question about these
military personnel the one that was
killed and the one that was assaulted
what circumstances are around these
people being killed and also I was in a
Ranger Battalion I just recently got out
of the service and we trained in Panama
and we had two days our an are down
there and I can tell you if Noriega got
into the drug trade it was only to
supply the military personnel down there
with drugs because everyone I saw down
there was in was using drugs and also
there was a case about a year ago of
military personnel stationed down there
importing drugs to Macon Georgia have
been transporting it to New York I was
wondering if there's any ties between
the military down there and Noriega
perhaps
importing drugs together well on the
first point the point about the weather
the circumstances that led to the
invasion there have been some reporters
who have looked into that and I think
the story appears to be pretty much what
the what the Pentagon initially said it
was which was that there was this
carload of American Marines are out
going out for dinner in the evening and
they made a wrong turn and they ended up
in front of the Panama Defense Force
Headquarters one of the most sensitive
places in Panama a crowd seems to have
gathered there seems been a bit of a
confrontation and and and the guys in
the car panicked sped through the
checkpoint and we're fired upon this
does not seem to have been a
premeditated effort by either side later
on is in terms of justifying the
invasion the the the administration did
argue that this was a murder of an
American marine and that it therefore
justified intervening to protect
American lives but what seems to been
the case was that this was a more of it
more of a situation that evolved out of
the tensions and the hostility that had
been growing on both sides over a number
of months and even years as far as the
the roughing up of the
of the American servicemen and
threatening of his wife that too came at
the same at that same point at the same
timeframe and seems to been a kind of a
spill over whether or not this was part
of any any orchestrated effort seems
unlikely but it does seem to reflect
that the hostility was growing from the
point of view of the Panamanians toward
the American servicemen down there and
Fred Kemp's book divorcing The Dictator
which is excerpted this week in Newsweek
and the book will be published in March
he writes this in just three months
after Bush took office he learned that
the army had launched an inquiry into
Noriega s-- misadventures details of
which might embarrass the Ford
administration this is when he took
office at the CIA and caused the GOP
long-term political damage code name
Kenton song the investigation revealed
that Noriega Panama's chief of
intelligence had been buying
reel-to-reel audio tapes from members of
the Army's 470 a--the military
intelligence group which conducted the
high-tech eavesdropping throughout the
region on behalf of the Defense
Intelligence Agency the four 70th was
specifically tasked to tape Panamanian
officials involved and Kent Canal treaty
negotiations and on and on we're gonna
see a lot of this you think we'll see
some of this I think there are as I say
many things that have not come out about
Noriega is relationship to the United
States and some of them are very
sensitive perhaps the most sensitive
will be the involvement of the alleged
involvement of the vice president's
office in 1983-84 with the contra
resupply effort the way Noriega aides
have described this is that after this
meeting in December of 83 between bush
and Noriega Noriega stepped in and
provided more assistance to the Contras
some of that according to these
allegations was coordinated out of the
vice president's office the vice
president's office and his and Bush's
top advisers at the time have denied
that they have claimed that they had no
relationship to the contra resupply
Evert they have so they have so sworn in
her under oath if it turns out that in
fact there there was a serious
involvement in the vice president's
office in the contrary supply operations
at that time which was when Congress was
trying to prevent assistance from going
to the Contras it could mean serious
trouble for some of Bush's former
ADEs many of whom are still in the
government and if that's the case that
could have then spillover effect to
cause embarrassment and possibly serious
political trouble for the president
Newport Beach California go ahead please
yeah good morning Brian I don't hear you
all that well I hope you hear me
I want to sort of throw a couple things
on the table for comment I wonder what
suggests and probably your callers would
think if you know Eisenhower said he
looked forward to a world of law which
you know clearly we don't have but if
both mr. Noriega and mr. Bush were tried
in the World Court in The Hague
individually of course I wonder what the
outcome would be secondly I see a long
range implication of this the u.s.
policy and I'm sure that my fellow a
house in Orange County don't give a damn
but I think that world opinion is is is
more and more important in terms of even
our country and I think that with the
gore there's a scenario that says that
Gorbachev and Russians particularly
European Russians in Europe would become
a more cohesive type of an arrangement
both economically and politically and
and I could see the United States
becoming a larger version of of South
Africa and the international scene that
is more and more isolated because I'm
sure the people of Europe but most of
the people the world just look at the
United States who haven't done this as
being an international gangster all
right thank you how about George Bush at
the World Court well obviously we we
might have some trouble in justifying in
terms of at least the the intricacies of
international law of this this action
the the arguments the basic arguments to
justify it that people have given most
credence to were the protection of
American lives one into the protection
of the Panama Canal there is there are
probably good arguments that that in
fact those were over reaching by the
government by the US government in in
terms of a legal justification for this
action however this was the case where
there was no doubt that the United
States
has significant strategic interests in
Panama through with the canal and
there's no doubt that this was an
unusual case where were where a dictator
had operated in ways they were very
heavy-handed in and an offensive
certainly to the American public into
its government but whether or not we'd
have a good case the u.s. would have a
good case in the world court I think is
it is an interesting issue and one that
has not been fully explored honey to new
york go ahead please Huntington New York
you're on the air go ahead please oh yes
sir you're on the air I can barely hear
you we can hear you
good morning Brian good morning I want
to talk about the Panamanian adventure
which obviously is very popular with the
American people and will to Congress and
I'm appalled by the fact that there's
such indifference to the cost of this
operation what I understand
we've lost 23 young lives several
hundred injured hundreds perhaps
thousands Panamanians I understand
20,000 homeless I read an estimate as to
billion dollars in in physical damage in
Panama this has got to be by far the
most costly criminal man hunting in
recorded history the the irony of it all
to me is that while this has been going
on the world has observed a successful
peaceful revolutions in Eastern Europe
against is far more despotic regimes
like this not have been the case in
Panama if we were not so trigger-happy
well I think Americans and I think the
US government would have been much
happier had the Panamanian people risen
up and taken matters into their own
hands as we've seen occurring at
at great risk in Eastern Europe that
that is a difficult question why didn't
the Panamanians take on Manuel Noriega
themselves as the Filipinos did against
President Marcos as the Romanians did as
as other countries other people of
Eastern Europe did and they did that
with risk and many of them in in the
case of Romania died why the Panamanians
waited for the United States intervene
is is a difficult question I don't quite
know I think Noriega while he was
clearly a human rights abuser and
clearly a dictator with very bad
reputation which was well deserved was
not known for any mass murders was not
known for a mass attack on his people
but they did not seem to to organize in
that fashion and they said perhaps they
were waiting for the u.s. to invade and
that certainly has been the case in some
countries where they would just as soon
have the United States do that hard work
for them as we take our next call we'll
look at the covers of this week's news
magazines Bob Perry with this one let's
go to the Los Angeles California
you're next morning I'm wondering how
long the American public is gonna have
to stipulate to the aspect of being fair
to this man the word fair does not apply
to this individual from a legal
standpoint and several other aspects are
doing in the cocaine business all right
well the fact of the matter is that
under the American Constitution which
will be the in a sense the operative
situation that mr. Noriega will be tried
under a person is presumed innocent
until proven guilty and the United
States cannot waive those kinds of
requirements of our legal system and
matter how despicable any one individual
might be so I think he does have to be
presumed innocent in the sense of a of a
trial he does have to be assured the
kind of protections that we have in our
legal system that will be difficult to
find an impartial jury for much the much
of this because
the points made I think by the caller
but the the federal judicial system must
make that effort as they have in other
difficult cases there are there been
there been plenty of drug dealers who
have been prosecuted under under federal
law and and Manuel Noriega will just
have to be one of them and he has to be
treated much as the others have been
Great Falls Virginia you're next
hi I'm calling from Great Falls good
morning honey
I see here listening to some of the
previous callers talk about the
Panamanian civilians victims a stunning
sim balance or a similarity to the way
the Chinese handled the disposal of the
students in Tiananmen Square
no individual identification of lost
individuals open grave mass graves you
described the lack of numbers the lack
of information about how many how many
died it's frightening I really think
there's any fairness in press coverage
on this subject that our situation what
we did to the Panamanians will
eventually be judged as equal to what
the Chinese did to their citizens in
Tiananmen Square that's my comment I'd
like to hear you respond to that well I
think the there has been criticism and
from people in the US military about how
certain parts of this operation were
carried out I've talked to particularly
people in the Special Operations
sections who were appalled that such
massive firepower was used against areas
where there were many civilians the
United States did use aircraft it used
artillery it it it did so to overwhelm
the Panamanian Defense Forces however it
was not at all discriminant in in the
sense that I think most military
observers would like to have seen there
were a number of civilian casualties in
the United States probably inflicted the
the bulk of those it also seems fair
that there be an effort to determine
exactly how many died and what the
circumstances were but though that's a
very hard thing to do when you're when
you're trying to deal with
battle situation this as I think the
article points out in Newsweek this week
that there were some of Noriega spew
were dressed as civilians they were they
were mixing in with a civilian
population it's an extremely hard it's a
hard question to resolve but it's it's
one that I think there should be more
effort at and I agree with that with the
caller that this should not just be
considered a minor footnote the United
States government I think also hasn't
tried to play down this this part of it
because of what could be negative public
public reaction to civilian casualties
Escondido California go ahead please
yeah my name is Greg soda my question is
given the odds of sending the Americans
into Panama and knowing that there would
be casualties why instead of going to
that extreme just instead sending a
couple of like hitmen and taking him out
because if the fact is like I feel like
the president just did that so he could
get a recognition of some sort instead
of just going in and like I don't know
if there's no he is gonna get the death
penalty or the gas chamber or what you
guys feel you're gonna do with him but I
think it'd have been a lot easier just
to send a couple hitmen in and take him
out and be done with it and not have all
those tragedies through the American
people's families in the some of the
Contras families the innocent people
they're in the streets and all the
problems that come of this thanks Tyler
we had that yeah that same question a
quick point you might make though is
that it may sound odd but it is a
violation of American law to engage in
assassinations the it is not necessarily
a violation of any kind of law -
contagion to engage in a military
operation that can have a number of
casualties but there were good reasons
why that prohibition on assassinations
was put into place the concern was if
the United States could be accused or in
fact engaged in assassinations if that
could come back to haunt the United
States that if we can kill someone
else's leader they might think they can
kill one of our leaders and
the United States was going through
tremendous tragedy because of the
assassination of political figures San
Juan again go ahead please I'm dr.
Mendez from someone
I'm very preoccupied about the American
invasion in Panama I'd like to know if
you have any concrete evidence about his
drug trafficking and all the other
crimes that he's accused of by the
federal grand jury thank you well
concrete evidence I mean there there are
there are witnesses who come forward who
would work with general Noriega who have
testified before the grand jury alleging
Noriega involvement with drug
trafficking the case is not as strong as
I think some some legal observers would
like the the the witnesses themselves
have in many cases been convicted drug
dealers some of the people who have not
been convicted drug dealers but who were
say former Noriega assistants have been
accused at different times of
fabricating other stories so it is not
the strongest case in many ways legally
but I do think the evidence is fairly
persuasive that general Noriega was
involved with with drug traffickers and
in a way to protect them or launder
their profits and so forth the evidence
I think is strong enough to say that but
it's going to be a difficult case ins in
in some practical ways as well as some
of these these more esoteric legal
issues we will see perhaps in and one of
the tremendous oddities of this case
will be that the Drug Enforcement
administrator John lon has publicly
praised general Noriega for his
assistance in fighting drugs there have
been letters written by the DEA praising
Noriega and his government for its its
its cooperation in fighting drug
trafficking and mr. Juan actually
maintains this for that position to this
day you so you could almost see John lon
being called as a defense witness in a
case where you have some convicted drug
dealers acting as the prosecution
witnesses so there are some practical
matters that in terms of this case that
are are will be difficult to to prove
beyond a reasonable doubt certain areas
of guilt but there's also the chance now
with Noriega out of power others will
come forward who know more about his
activities and testify or the documents
will be discovered that will shed more
light on what he was actually up to time
for two more calls Miami next go ahead
please
oh good morning Brian morning I have one
question about Noriega you know it seems
to me that Bush put a lot of emphasis on
bring it
Noriega back to Miami or to who South
Florida alive for trial right that was
the major emphasis of the four points
what troubles me is this we've been
losing the war on drugs everybody knows
it
I believe Noriega is going to be used
although he has a bad guy it wasn't
drugs although he was a relatively minor
player but he's got good front-page news
and I believe he's going to be milked
for PR for George Bush and William
Bennett the collars going to be long
everybody knows it so me constantly in
the front pages probably I don't know
what's going to come of what he knows
about Bush or whatever but I believe
he's being used well I think to some
extent that the callers right the
general Noriega is not considered to be
a major drug figure in the sense of some
of the leaders of the cartel he is
accused essentially of assisting them
with money laundering providing
protection providing a basis of
operation for them but he is not
generally regarded by those who follow
these questions as himself a major drug
trafficker and as I pointed out there
was even this conflicting evidence that
he cooperated with the Drug Enforcement
Administration in arresting a number of
drug traffickers so I think the point is
fair that this is not the the kingpin of
international drug trafficking but
whether or not the intent is simply to
milk it for publicity sake I I'm not
sure I can agree with that
come on Washington go ahead please yes
you know this is opened up a can of
worms that this is really bad for
American jurisprudence think of all the
kids gone to law school and think about
what they're saying right now it
actually this goes back way to the 1900s
when they set up segregated money
changing lands in the Commission down
there I think they were paying off
silver a bowl or something and they had
one for blacks and one forks for four
for four whites and it started right
from there
now we have people in the community
saying that this was planned a long long
time ago and that when they promoted
jump : powell into this they did it to
take some of the ease and heat off they
know that the fallout was going to be
behind this we live we live here in
America under one law which says that no
officer of the law can break the law to
protect the law well I think that that
point is it's correct when that's the
the the federal government is not
supposed to violate the law but I'm not
quite sure what the suggestion was if
the suggestion was that that general
Powell was was was put in as chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff to make this
possible I don't really understand that
but the clearly I think that President
the President Bush found a change in the
military command both at the Southern
Command in Panama and at the and in the
Pentagon it enabled him to move forward
with military options the the previous
leadership both in the South in South
calm and at the Pentagon was much more
resistant to committing American troops
to Panama and it was with the changes
that we saw in the last year or so and
in in in both areas that the OP the
military option rose and became more
acceptable and more likely and was
clearly carried out I think by most by
most estimations very effectively but it
was a but it was an option that was made
possible by many of the changes we've
seen in the military Brattleboro Vermont
go ahead please you're on the air
good morning a couple of very quick
points one is it sometimes sounds as
though there's going to be President
Bush
put on trial down in Miami and not
Manuel Noriega secondly I think the
reason why there was a military strike
was an assassination would not have
neutralized the PDF which could have
caused a great deal problem both for the
US and the Panamanian people I think
sometimes it sounds as though the press
is more on Noriega side then on the
government side and then lastly there
seems to be a lot of second-guessing on
the press's part and you hear a lot of
comments on what we should have done we
should have done this that and the other
thing I wonder if maybe some of the
people in the press Auto get into
government where they could really make
some decisions if they if they know so
much well I don't know what the what
exactly that the point is but the the
the press I think has been generally
very fair on this on the issue of
covering Panama the there have been
there have been complaints inside the
government which the press has reported
raising doubts or questions about
certain aspects of the operation I think
overall they've the press has fairly
responded and reported that by and large
the Congress and and other people in the
administration were very supportive of
the operation the president's fairly
reported I think that the Panamanian
people seem very happy with the
operation so I think it's an unfair
statement to say that the press is
trying to be overly critical of this
operation certainly it's a it is the
president's responsibility to report
when people who follow these things and
know about them have have have
criticisms or questions or doubts it's
also the responsibility of the press to
report fairly what what general Noriega
is lawyers are saying for instance or
what certainly legal scholars are saying
about problems this case has so I think
it's unfair to accuse the press of
somehow defending Noriega or being too
critical to the to the American
government I don't think that's it
that's the fact that's not fair
criticism our guest Bob Perry Washington
correspondent for Newsweek magazine he
has a piece he wrote from Miami and this
week's edition of Newsweek and also he
co-authored the
cover story which has the picture on the
front page that was released by the
government last week of general Noriega
Bob Perry originally from Hartford
Connecticut and with Newsweek magazine
since February of 87 12 years with The
Associated Press thank you a lot for
joining us thank you
sir audience have a good day
if you would like to contact our Colin
guest Robert Perry you can write to him
at the Washington bureau of Newsweek the
address is 1750 Pennsylvania Avenue
Northwest Washington DC - zero zero zero
six coming up next
former CBS News president Sigma Colson
discusses his book on television
coverage of presidential campaigns
[Music]
Wednesday on c-span a look at the Census
Bureau and the operations of the 1990
census Wednesday beginning at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern 6:30 a.m. Pacific time
[Music]
coming up next we spend an hour with
Sigma Coulson former president of CBS
News and author of the book from
Whistlestop to soundbite a look at
television coverage of presidential
campaigns mr. Mickelson is our guest
this week on booknotes Sigma Coulson
author of from Whistlestop the soundbite
I want to go to your last chapter first
all right
the frustrated dream chapter 12 what is
your